Ques 1:- What are some new things happening in the web?
Ans:- 
1: Blockchain Technology.
2: Accelerated Mobile Pages.
3: Voice Search Optimization.
4: AI-Powered Chatbots.
5: Motion UI.
6: Data Security.
7: Cybersecurity.
8: Virtual Reality.
9: Automation Testing.
10: Responsive Websites.


Ques 2:- Explain a project that you have built?
Ans:- there are some point how to explain your project.
1: Project Introduction.
2: Modules description.
3: Advantages and the main functionality of your website or application.
4: Tools, Technologies, and Platform used.
5: Personal contribution and your role in the project.
6: Challenges in the project.
7: Number of people in the project.



Ques 3:- Whats something exciting that you have built?

Answer: 
Answer In this project I designed the beautiful UI part and dynamic functionality like  SignUp page, LogIn Page,
   with user verification, in Home page I create a custom slide show,  and in product page add the all the product details, 
statically in my local machine, and add add to cart and remove from cart functionality, and simple payment page.


4.What are you most excited about?

Answer: 
This is my first job application, so I cannot say exactly what I am excited about when it comes to work. 
When you are young, however, everything looks exciting and promising.
I can assure you that I am looking forward to start working, after spending long years studying, and getting ready for this very moment.
 What’s more, I really like what you do in this company, and it will be a dream come true to get a chance to work for you.



5. Why do coding standards matter? What are some patterns you follow?

Answer : The reason why coding standards are important is that they help to ensure safety, security, and reliability.
Coding rules and guidelines ensure that software is:
Safe: It can be used without causing harm.
Secure: It can’t be hacked.
Reliable: It functions as it should, every time.
Testable: It can be tested at the code level.
Maintainable: It can be maintained, even as your codebase grows.
Portable: It works the same in every environment.

6.How do you go about managing responsive websites?

Answer :  Focus On The Content, Get To Know The Media Query,  Keep A “Mobile First” Mentality, Create A Flexible Foundation, Optimize Your Assets, ake Your Website “Touch-Friendly”, Pick The Right Content Management System (CMS), Invest In Testing Tools etc.

7.What do you care about the most when you write software?

Answer: 
Acceptability. Software must be acceptable to the type of users for which it is designed. ...
Dependability & Security. Software dependability includes a range of characteristics including reliability, security, and safety. ...
Efficiency. ...
Maintainability.